---
#----------
# Written by: Kalcifer Kandari
# Date: 29 February 2016 20:03:07
#----------
date: 2016-02-29 20:03:07
title: "Been Busy"
author: Kalcifer_Kandari
excerpt: "A rundown of some things being worked on."
short: "true"
---

Started a lot of projects in the past few years and not published much information on them, that is about to change. Here are summaries of some of the projects. Links will be added when articles on them are written:

- **[A website engine]({% post_url 2016-02-29-website-engine-outline %}) in JavaScript, including the client, server, and data storage.**  
Websites are great, most of the time, but there are some aspects to them that are mildly annoying and should have been fixed already. Things like pages almost loading, but then loading a bit more, moving a link just a enough for a different one to be clicked. And the fact that most website send the parts of webpages that don’t change with every request. And ones that automatically load while scrolling, but don't automatically unload at the same time, which is effectively a memory leak. Small things that take a lot of effort to fix.
- **A game engine.**  
Games are great, not that much of the time actually, most are in denial or do things inefficiently. They are in denial because many don’t present what is the case, such as ‘hit boxes’ being different from models, or trying to have humanoids as characters, but walking not being the method of locomotion. They are inefficient because at the cost of scale they priorities excessive polygon counts for severely diminishing returns to enjoyment, or hold information of objects that cannot even be seen or touched. Subtle things that take a lot of effort to fix. More about these intricacies in another post.
- **A highly modular application/operating system engine.**  
Applications and operating systems are great, none of the time, they are archaic. Applications are incredibly insecure, mostly custom written per application, and not cross-platform, what year is this? Insecurity extends to operating systems, applications are rarely properly sandboxed and have almost unlimited power in the system, the fact that applications don’t exploit that power is mostly the obedience of honour rules. They are usually custom written, and users don't usually have control of what the application does on a code-level? Many don’t even allow the rebinding of hot-keys, never mind having main application functionality as modules. All major problems that take a lot of effort to fix. More about these glaring inadequacies in another post.
- **A hybrid 3D comic/animation series.**  
Movies and books are great, sometimes. They usually completely void the concept of tension and suspense by having immortal protagonists and by using clichés that telegraph what is going to happen next. Many glorify violence and battle without ever touching on the brutal consequences, war isn’t Hell, war is the Devil’s Heaven. Anything can happen at any time, there are no laws but the laws of physics, this should be shown. More about these inconsistencies in another post.
- **A topological data redistribution library.**  
Decimating and interpolating surfaces in a meaningful way is great, it’s not done well though. It’s slow, inconsistent, and ineffective, especially on large amounts of data. More about these intricacies in another post, and until then here is a sample, some [work done to convert an equirectangular digital elevation model (DEM) to a Dymaxion DEM](http://bioticpixels.com/articles/dymaxion/ "bioticpixels.com/articles/dymaxion").
- **A book.**  
More on the flaws of movies and books, making up for the disappointment of super heroes and their consequences, and the oversight of their powers. More about these intricacies in another post.