---
#----------
# Written by: Kalcifer Kandari
# Date: 24 February 2016 
#----------
date: 2016-02-24 06:13:33
title: "ICIRA"
longTitle: "A Proposal for the Formation of The Internet Copyright Insurance and Regulation Association (ICIRA)"
author: Kalcifer_Kandari
excerpt: "An idea for a proposal for an unofficial industry governing body providing centralised computer-readable Internet copyright licensing creation, proof, detection, dispute, and site-wide regulation."
---

# A Proposal for the Formation of The Internet Copyright Insurance and Regulation Association (ICIRA)

*Written by: {{ site.data.authors[page.author].name }}*  
*Date: {{ page.date | date: "%-d %B %Y %T" }}*

## 0. Abstract

{{ page.excerpt }}

## 1. Table of Contents

Use `command + up` or `control + up` to come back to the table of contents.

* TOC
{:toc}

## 2. Introduction

***Disclaimer:** This was not written by a lawyer. This is a speculative proposal and may not have any legal or practical merit. Skepticism is advised.*

This is an idea for a proposal for an unofficial industry governing body providing centralised computer-readable Internet copyright licensing creation, proof, detection, dispute, and site-wide regulation, as a convenient substitute to a full DMCA claim for the same case with regards to speed and cost.

The system would consist of 3 parts:

- [3. Computer-Readable Standardised Licensing Agreements](#computer-readable-standardised-licensing-agreements)
- [4. Copyright License Enforcement](#copyright-license-enforcement)
- [5. Paid Site-wide Copyright Regulation](#paidsite-wide-copyright-regulation)

## 3. Computer-Readable Standardised Licensing Agreements

These are standardised public Internet computer-readable licenses that the ICIRA can verify the legitimacy of in a court case. They include agreements between 2 or more verified parties, publicly available paid licenses, declarations of fair use, and guaranteed means of legitimate attribution.

The computer-readability means that these licenses can automatically be cross-checked upon positive automatic content match, which largely avoids the false-positives of such systems.

## 4. Copyright License Enforcement

These are services for copyright holders, and include:

- [4.1. Paid Proof of Publication](#paid-proof-of-publication)
- [4.2. Paid Content Match Detection](#paid-content-match-detection)
- [4.3. High Stakes Copyright Dispute Mediation](#high-stakes-copyright-dispute-mediation)
- [4.4. Paid Class Action Lawsuits](#paid-class-action-lawsuits)

### 4.1. Paid Proof of Publication

This provides a strong means to defend works against accusations of copyright infringement. It is not proof of copyright, it may only be used as evidence.

### 4.2. Paid Content Match Detection

Either on a single instance basis, or periodically against new uploads. This provides a means to determine whether other works in the depository infringe using automatic content matching, which includes works that sites have given the ICIRA access to, which is part of the regulatory agreement.

### 4.3. High Stakes Copyright Dispute Mediation

The accusing party, herein referred to as 'the accuser', pays a sum of money to have a dispute mediated by a human associated with the ICIRA. This is only with works uploaded on regulated sites, as it requires compliance by the host platform.

The uploader of the material in question, whom must be a member of a regulated site where the work was uploaded, can either participate, or refuse and possibly be subject to a DMCA claim made by the ICIRA on behalf of the accuser, if the user pays or has insurance with the ICIRA. Even if the uploader agrees to participate, they are still under no obligation, and are not legally bound to the decisions made by the ICIRA unless a settlement is reached and an agreement signed.

If the uploader agrees to participate and wins, then the accuser must, by a legal agreement with the ICIRA, pay the uploader inconvenience damages, and a fine for to the ICIRA for filing a false claim.

If the accuser wins, the most the ICIRA will enforce is as follows: 

- All revenue made by the host platform must be transferred to the accuser by the host platform.
- The cost of hosting the infringing material on the host platform must be paid by the uploader to the host platform by the uploader.
- The cost of mediating the dispute the accuser originally paid to the accuser by the uploader.
- Any other damages to either the accuser and the host platform by the uploader.
- Both the accuser and uploader also surrender their ability to pursue the same case as an official DMCA claim.

There may be other settlements, such as paying any revenue the uploader has made so far and signing a licensing agreement for example.

If the accuser declines the settlement conditions, then the dispute is dropped and they must pay inconvenience damages to the uploader.

### 4.4. Paid Class Action Lawsuits

Content infringement cases against unregulated websites can also be accumulated to create a break even DMCA class action lawsuit by the ICIRA on the behalf of copyright holders. This means that the infringing site would need to pay for the fees of ICIRA, and the money the participants paid, along with the revenue they earned from the infringed material, and any further damages if the case is won.

## 5. Paid Site-Wide Copyright Regulation

This provides large content platforms to mitigate the possible legal problems associated with publishing content on the Internet on their users' behalf, and could be considered copyright insurance. A certificate could also be provided by the ICIRA.

The requirements includes:

- [5.1. License Verification](#license-verification)
- [5.2. Settlement Terms Enforcement](#settlement-terms-enforcement)
- [5.3. User Requirements](#user-requirements)
- [5.4. Terms Infringement Fine](#terms-infringementfine)

### 5.1. License Verification

This is only required if using a separate content match system, where if a match is found then it is referenced against a license and no further action taken unless by the accuser, which can still be notified of the match.

Also, automatic takedowns are not permitted, and must always be disputed through the ICIRA or an official DMCA claim.

### 5.2. Settlement Terms Enforcement

This includes:

- [5.2.1. Proof of Upload](#proofofupload)
- [5.2.2. Proof of Revenue](#proofofrevenue)

#### 5.2.1. Proof of Upload

Regulated sites must provide a proof of upload as sufficient proof for intellectual property claims.

#### 5.2.2. Proof of Revenue

This is required to calculated accurate damages in copyright disputes by users. It is subject to a none disclosure agreement (NDA) between all parties that receive the information, which mean the conditions of the settlements will largely remain private.

### 5.3. User Requirements

ICIRA-user agreement before uploads are permitted on the site, including text. The agreement includes:

- A verified account for uploads, which includes a verified bank account. It may be sufficient that the user register with the ICIRA directly, such as to remain anonymous to the host platform and for the security of bank details in the case of untrustworthy sites.
- Settlement participation, subject to a fine and possible DMCA case if refused.

### 5.4. Terms Infringement Fine

Where the site agrees to pay a fine if the terms between it and the ICIRA are breached, where the regulatory certificate is also revoked.

## 6. Conclusion

This would provide a means for sites, big and small, to comply with copyright law in a relatively efficient, and cheap way, and also a means for copyright holders to enforce their property in a convenient manner, possibly having a large improvement in cultural expression on the Internet. It also discourages copyright trolling by creating monetary consequences for unsuccessful claims.

It should also be noted that copyright is a form of intellectual property law, and as such there must be a means to prove ownership in order to prove that someone is guilty of infringement, this being with regards to 'innocent until proven guilty'.

{% include footer.html redditUrl="redd.it/47bn8f" %}