---
#----------
# Written by: Kalcifer Kandari
# Date: 4 March 2016 01:10:57
#----------
layout: article
date: 2016-03-04 01:10:57
title: ""
author: Kalcifer_Kandari
excerpt: ""
---

## Abstract

Here is a primer on Jekyll for those thinking about adopting it as their blogging platform so you know what you are getting into.

## Introduction

After determining that the best way to host a blog would be on GitHub pages, it has be transferred using Jekyll.

## Why Move to Jekyll

Other blogging platforms are either bloated, have a price attached, or are debilitatingly simplistic.

Here Medium.com will be focused on, because that is maybe the most compelling blog platform for sheer ease-of-use, but it has a few basic flaws that stop it from being attractive.

- The main one is the lack of code formatting, which essentially comes down to being able to use a monospace font.
- The next issue is less critical as it can be worked around by using a different writing style, the problem being the how few formatting options there are. Only having 2 headings is not useful for longer articles, and not seemingly being able to nest lists is crippling.
- There are other convenience abilities that would be good if it had, such as an automatic table of contents generator.

Things things could be introduced without compromising the site's simple style.

## Setting Up Jekyll and GitHub Pages

Git and GitHub pages is a dream. Learning Git will take a few hours, but it is fairly straight forward [] and definitely worth it, whether you are a coder or a writer, it is possible the best at what it does right now, and that is version control.

GitHub pages are great. Not difficult to setup, free, and comes will all the benefits of GitHub and Git.

Jekyll is a nightmare. This must be clear. If anyone is thinking of creating a Jekyll blog, it is not easy. More on Jekyll in the next section.

### Jekyll

Jekyll has some quirks that make it difficult to learn and setup, and some limitations that really shouldn't be there, but are.

What it is capable of
Parts
Flaws
Documentation
Limitations