---
#----------
# Written by: Kalcifer Kandari
# Date: 4 March 2016 01:10:57
#----------
date: 2016-03-04 01:10:57
title: ""
author: Kalcifer_Kandari
excerpt: "Here is a primer on Jekyll for those thinking about adopting it as their blogging platform, so you know what you are getting into."
---

## Introduction

After determining that the best way to host a blog would be on GitHub pages, it has be transferred using Jekyll, which has not been easy.

## Why Move to Jekyll?

Other blogging platforms are either bloated, have a price attached, or are debilitatingly simplistic.

Here Medium.com will be focused on, because that is maybe the most compelling blog platform for sheer ease-of-use, but it has a few basic flaws that stop it from being attractive.

- The main one is the lack of code formatting, not even being able to use a monospace font.
- The next issue is less critical as it can be worked around by using a different writing style, the problem being how few formatting options there are in general. Only having 2 headings is not useful for longer articles, and not seemingly being able to nest lists is crippling.
- There are other convenience abilities that would be good if it had, such as an automatic table of contents generator.

These things could be fixed without compromising the site's simple style, and without there coders in particular need to find a better place, and of course one of those places is GitHub.

GitHub provides free hosting for public git repositories, which is where projects that are using git for version control are stored. These repositories hold all the states that the project was ever in, which is very useful for non-destructive editing and collaboration.  
Because GitHub repositories can practically be static websites anyway, GitHub supports the ability natively. The downsides to this are that the websites must be static, and editing static websites can be very time-consuming.

Webpages almost always have aspects that are present in other pages on the site, and changing this after there are many pages needs to be automated to be practical. Also, when pages are changed, it may change information on other pages, such as keeping track of posts in an archive, or a blogroll for example.  
Fixing these problems doesn't need a dynamic website, it just needs something to compile the site before it is hosted. This is where Jekyll comes in.

Jekyll is essentially a static website template engine that brings together the abilities of a wide variety of libraries into one package. It's not exactly an elegant, unified package, but it does work, provides much more power than other blogs, and it's free.

## Jekyll

Jekyll can be a nightmare, which is really brought about by the sum of it parts, their sheer variety, and the fact they have to work together in this fiendish monster. If anyone is thinking of creating a Jekyll blog, it is not easy. It can be done though, and that is what this article aims to prime you for.

### The Parts

This will not be comprehensive, there is a lot in Jekyll, but these are the main parts:

- **Git and GitHub.**  
These are dream. Learning Git will take a few hours, but it is fairly straight forward [] and definitely worth it, whether you are a coder or a writer, and it is possibly the best at what it does right now.
- **GitHub pages.**  
GitHub pages are great. Not difficult to setup, free, and comes will all the benefits of GitHub and Git. The pages are static though, nothing like hosting your own site, but that really isn't necessary for a blog anyway.
- **YAML Front Matter.**  
This is information in YAML that is placed on the front of files that are to be processed by Jekyll when the site is generated.
- **Markdown parsers.**  
These convert markdown to HTML.
- **Liquid templating.**  
Including layouts, includes, variables, loops, ifs, and more.

Git
GitHub
YAML
Liquid
Markdown
HTML
CSS
SASS

### The Problems

Jekyll has some quirks that make it difficult to learn and setup, and some limitations that really shouldn't be there, but are.

- The markdown parsers are unable to format HTML properly across layouts and includes.
- YAML does what it does well in and of itself, which is store information, but because the information is static.

values can't be built up from other values, which results in a lot of repetitive

Bad HTML formatting
Bad variable scope
Can't use markdown includes
Can't pass variables between layouts
YAML doesn't understand variables
Liquid can't assign variables that already exist
Liquid can't assign lists or keys with keys



Parts
Flaws
Documentation
Limitations